were cackled okay and uh bull neck was meat all
right now was ham bull neck also as far as i can
remember bacon was bull neck Yeah. Any meat. Any
meat. As I recall, that's been a long time ago,
Haskell. Was all dessert kush? Yes. That was the
general term. Pie, cake. It was kush. Okay.
Ketchup was blood. Tea was horse. Don't remember.
I think I intentionally have forgotten some of
that stuff because it wasn't something that I
wanted to remember. Can you share with the machine
any pranks, tricks you remember ever observing
being played in the dining hall where somebody did
something to somebody else's food? They were
always throwing food, and you had biscuits on the
ceiling. I thought that was part of the
decoration. But there was always harassing going
on between tables and involving the food or
involving the individuals. But most people got in
there and tried to get eaten and back to class.
Let's see. We talked about your outfit. How
important, as you look back on it, how important
was BAAA to you in your life? Well, I think that was
home, and you developed a very close relationship
with the people that were in that unit. They were
difficult on campus, but you always had the
feeling when we'd go on court trips and like that,
the upperclassmen took care of you. It became a
very close-knit family unit, and certainly your
fish buddies did. We still get together
regularly. They come down here, Raul Fernandez,
Billy Fernandez, Tommy Lowman, Wesley Heald, so
those guys that were in that unit, very close
friends even today. Do you remember any incident
events during that freshman year that began to
demonstrate that closeness?
Well, of course, we had to stick together during
these hazing sessions. And when we would go on
court trips, those were the guys you stuck around
with because you knew them well. They became just
like family. And
nobody, we had one car, Fish Burt had a pink
Studebaker. and out of those 43 that freshman
year. So we essentially had no car because 43 of us
couldn't get in that pink Studebaker.
But we hitchhiked to ball games. We had, every now
and then you'd get a ride with an upperclassman.
It was a, it was a different world. Can you describe
your first court trip? I didn't go to California on
that first game. I know a lot of the freshmen in the
band went. But the first court trip we hitchhiked
to
Fort Worth, I believe it was TCU, and marched at the
game. Of course, back then you went in as a unit to
all the games, except basketball, where you had to
alternate. Aircroppers got every other home
basketball game, and Army got every other one. And
we'd feel derogatory because you knew that you
only had half the chance to see those games, and
knowing that you were excluded made it important
that you were there when you had the chance to be
there. Now, how did you get to Fort Worth for that
court trip, that first one? Hitchhiking. Went
over to the stand over at Northgate by the post
office and got in line. And you always made sure
your bag had a Texas Aggie sticker on it. And you'd
get rides. Sometimes you knew as soon as you got in
you'd made a mistake. Other times it was a
delightful experience. Met some very
interesting people hitchhiking to Gaines and to
Holm. We're now including all of your years of
experience in hitchhiking. Share the highest and
the lowest experience you remember in Aggie
hitchhiking. What? Well, one Friday afternoon, I
think it was just before Christmas because I knew I
had some books with me. Caught a ride with a fellow
who was a dealer at Galveston in one of the casinos
down there, and he had just gotten a job in Las
Vegas. And he picked me up and said, do you have a
driver's license? Yes. Driving a Cadillac. I
don't ever remember being in one until then. He had
worked all day, and so he wanted me to drive. So I
drove 428 miles to Wellington, We got there just
about sun up and mama invited him in and he slept for
a couple of hours in bed and fed him breakfast and on
he went. Probably the most disappointing ride was
when I caught a ride in a pickup with a farmer from
Hearn. Took about three hours to get to her.
And everything was passing us. And he let me out on
this side of town. And you can't get a ride going
north if you're on the south part of town. That and
experiences of getting a ride with someone that's
drunk that won't let you drive. And those are. Did
that happen a few times? A couple. No accident, but
it was quite knuckle time. But you never had a bad
experience. Not really. I haven't found anybody
yet that did. I started hitchhiking when I was in
high school because I worked at Plainview when I
lived at Wellington in the summers before my
freshman year and then between freshman and
sophomore and sophomore and junior years in high
school. And I always hitchhiked over to Plainview
and would hitchhike home. And never had a few scary
instances where people were drunk. A couple that I
vividly remember. But by and large, you met some
very interesting people. Let's go back to court
trips.
During all of your undergraduate years, describe
some of the court trips and where you all stayed and
some of the good times that you had. Well, we nearly
always stayed with the parent of one of the
freshmen in our outfit. And, of course, we slept on
the vans and in the floor and what have you, always
ate well.
And that might be how many, that one place? 10 to 15
of us, just wherever we could find a... A open spot.
But that was fairly common back then. Of the court
trips, what was your favorite place? I
don't think I really had one. I enjoyed the trip we
drove when I was a senior to the Arkansas game. But
that wasn't a court trip, but you still went. Yeah.
And left on Friday afternoon after we got out of
labs and drove all night. Stopped at Mount
Pleasant Fish Messer's house and had breakfast.
Got into Arkansas, oh, about 11. Dead tired and.
Some of the Arkansas students invited us to. Come
into the door. And we slept for about two hours. I
was sleeping. They shined our boots as a senior
and. Was just spectacular. And we made that and
then drove back after the game. Can you remember
any incredible, goofy, unbelievable events
connected with going to some game somewhere?
Well, yeah, the TCU game when I was a junior.
Leaving the game, we got caught between the
athletic dorm, and that's when the...
editor of the Aggieland that year. He was a senior,
got whooped. And we got in a
group, the Aggies did, surrounded by TCU
students, and it took us about an hour to work our
way on about three blocks to our vehicles.
I can't think of the military science professor,
and he's still around here, that was kind of
keeping us together. But we had some experiences
like that that you remember as being rather
incredible. All right, now let's go academic.
Early on, who did you turn to for academic advice
and counsel? uh dr gaines and dr little over in
entomology g-a-i-n-e-s he was the head of the
department dr little was the advisor student
advisor for years and years i think he came here in
about 1927. can you give some examples of the
advice you got from them uh they just told you what
courses you had to take needed to take And, of
course, they advised you as far as what electives
to take. They were good counsel when you got down,
lonely when the whole world was picking on you.
They were valuable advisors at that point, as well
as the Wesley Foundation Director of the church.
Were they available when you needed them? Yes.
It was a much smaller place than it is nowadays. It
was much like a high school situation. You could
walk into their office and it was like talking to
your dad. Do you remember that? You had respect for
them and you had a little bit of, felt a little
intimidated simply because of their position. Do
you remember? Not the personality or how you were
treated. Remember how many freshmen there were
your freshman year? There were about 77 or 7800
total students at A&M. And I
would guess that when we first registered and
official count was made is somewhere around 1200.
Because we would lose about half of them. And you
started out in entomology? Yes. You never changed
your major. Which is really unusual because I
think I was either the first or second because most
people had no idea what entomology was. And most of
them were recruited because entomology,
101 with introductory entomology was a required
course essentially by everyone, even engineers.
Certain engineer majors took that as a science.
Who taught that? Dr. Little. And what was it like?
Describe that course. Well, it basically dealt
with the classification of insects and what their
role in society today and a little bit on controls
and on behavior and habits. There was no
collection or anything like that required. It was
three hours of lecture. And then you had one
three-hour lab that you looked at insects,
identified them, studied the biology, looked at
the different life stages. And you probably liked
it. Yes, but I liked some of the later courses that
were more specific in terms of the introductory
course is very broad, very general, has a lot of the
whiz, bang, wow type information. It was
interesting. But it wasn't challenging like some
of the later courses that you took. Some other
courses that first year that were, you recall?
Well, you could say that freshman chemistry was a
course that most guys in my class majored in. They
often took it each semester until they were
seniors, and some of them never did pass it, but.
Who taught that course?
Was it Stubbs? I know he taught chemistry. I think
that he taught. Did y'all have a nickname for him?
Yes, but I don't remember it. And it was a tough
course? For you? No. I was so scared of it going in
that I spent a lot of time on it. And so I only took
freshman chemistry, both the inorganic, which
was the first semester, and the organic second
semester one time. I was very fortunate. English?
We had English literature. We had history.
American history. Who taught it? Do you remember?
Zingaro taught our
physics class, but that was sophomore year when I
took the physics. I took chemistry, history,
English, biology.
Dr. Baldorf taught it. in military science and PE.
And do you remember how you did that first semester
academically? I know that those first two exams
tried to stay up all night and you don't do that
because you go to sleep in the exams. Not very well.
I made about a 42 on the chemistry exam
and below 50 on
the math exam. And
figured out that there are better ways of
approaching studying and getting rest and how to
study. So there were some trials. But you passed
everything the first semester? Yeah. I made one B.
The rest of them were A's. Oh, oh. You said not very
well. Oh, so you didn't spend it. Quiz A, like to
kill me, scared the life out of me. I figured that I
was probably going to be headed home at
mid-semester. But I probably would have to have a
new one because I wasn't going to be welcomed as the
one I'd left. How often did you communicate with
your parents? About once a week, I wrote. Mail was
delivered in the door. They put it on your door.
When I say they, we, as freshmen, the freshmen
delivered mail. It was brought in a sack and dumped
in the guard room in each dorm, and then it was mail
called. They were delivered to the door. Did your
parents write to you? Yes. Mama did. And Daddy told
her what he wanted to say. And about how often were
there any phone calls between you and them? I don't
ever remember a phone call. And where was the
nearest phone to your room? In the guard room.
There was one in the dorm. And a freshman manned it,
answered it, and another freshman was there. You
had phone duty. And two people were assigned, two
freshmen were assigned to be there. And the
schedule was worked out from about 6 in the morning
until about midnight. Surely you know that
today's students cannot believe there wasn't a
phone in every room. Well, there was. There was no
air conditioning either. That's right. So you did
well that first. What led you, was it the high
school preparation? As you look back on it, what
was the secret to your doing well academically?
Fear.
Someone asked me one time how I ended up going to
college. Mm-hmm. And I really don't know. I think
it was just an undiscussed expectation in our
home. Both my mother, mother went to Tarleton and
my dad went to Tarleton and then A&M. I think it was
just an expectation. And I don't ever remember us
discussing whether or not you would go to college.
What do you think would have been the result if you
had announced to them that you had decided you
would not go to college?
I think that I would have been overruled, but I
don't know that. When I said that to my dad about
five years ago, he looked at me and he said, you knew
damn good and well you'd have found a place to sleep
that night. But it was just an expectation, and it
was not really discussed that that's what you,
that was part of your getting an education. Share
with, when you mention your dad and Tarleton,
share with me this machine, all that you can recall
that he ever shared about Earl Rudder, his
roommate? Well, he and Earl... Both were their own
athletic scholarships. And what an athletic
scholarship was back then was the cow. Someone had
donated a cow to Tarleton. And they, and this was
the jersey, and they staked her out on the football
field where she grazed. And then they would bring
her into the shower and milk her into the bottles.
Mm-hmm. milk bottles that were glass, that were
delivered to the faculty who paid for that milk,
and that's their scholarship. And they would wash
the bottles out in the shower.
I don't know, they never had any refrigeration or
anything, but that was probably the most
interesting thing that I can remember. Now, Mrs.
Rudder, in sharing that story, story with me said
that as she understood it from Earl the cow became
available when Mr. Rudder in the spring of his
first year told the coach he was going to go back to
Eden gonna drop out because he needed some money
and that the cow then was made available Does that
say? I wasn't aware of those details. I just
remember dad telling about their scholarship at
Tarleton. Were they the same year? Yes. Okay.
Graduated in 32, I believe. And your dad had gone to
what high school?
Roscoe, outside of Sweetwater. What position did
he play? He was a halfback, and what he really was
able to do at Tarleton to get enough money to stay
there was he was a left-handed pitcher. And on
weekends, he would go out to Sol Ross. There was a
gentleman out there that was an avid baseball fan.
He had a semi-pro team, and they would pay $25 a
game. And so he would pitch either Saturday or
Sunday. Did your dad also do that in the summers out
there? Yeah. And that's the reason he got a job
during the Depression. What position did, or
football position, did Mr. Rutter play? Do you
know? I don't. He was either a center or a tackle.
Okay. Do you remember your dad talking about Mr.
Rudder as a person, what kind of person he was like?
Well, he had a great deal of respect and admiration
for Earl Rudder. From his student? From his
student years, and then they stayed in touch.
He and Mrs. Rudder who, she told me that her name was
Margaret, it wasn't Chick, so we better not put
that in this text. But I didn't know what her name
was until I babysat with, when I was a student here
with their kids when they would be gone. And she was
Chick, right? I didn't know anything else. That's
what I've heard a number of others say. And she told
me here about 10 years ago, don't you ever call me
Chick. So I said, well, what do I call you? And she
said, Margaret. She also told me that, she phrased
it, Earl told her that one of the first times he
delivered the milk to somebody, the bottle wasn't
quite full, and the man complained about that. And
she said that Earl said, well, there was a water
faucet near where we, and from then on the bottle.
Made sure that it was full. That it was full. Did
your father have any, share any memories about Mr.
Rutter as a student?
Not that I ever recall. Was he one of the group
thoroughly? Yes. personality-wise and from a
leadership standpoint. Back then, he was one that
led them in all kinds of trouble.
And did he make good grades? I have no idea. Grades
were not discussed. All right, let's come back
then to academics for you. During that freshman
year, your interest in entomology never wavered.
It got stronger? Well, of course, as most kids,
when you come down here, you're not real sure of
what you want to major in. And I always
entertained, thought, well, I might want to major
in chemical engineering. And so I kept that in mind
and looked at it through my sophomore year, but
never took it seriously. And then in selecting
electives, I took a number of economics courses,
accounting, international finance, business
law, as electives, and did get a degree in
economics along with my entomology. Titium
influenced that a lot, the actual getting a
degree. I was taking the courses over there, so I
had interaction with a number of the staff members
in economics. Describe, summarize your
recollections of Titium.
A very impressive person and very active on
campus. You heard and saw a lot of the man.
Very personable, very friendly. Went out of his
way to make sure that students were doing well. Did
they have any needs, any problems that he could
help with? Just someone that you said, now this is a
mentor on this campus. Now you said you majored in
economics or ag economics? Ag economics. Did you
have any economics courses? Al Chalk, anybody
like that? Well, I think about half the course.
Accounting, I think, was taught over in economics
rather than ag-eco. Business law was taught over
in economics. Who was that? I don't remember.
International finance was taught over in ag-eco.
So at the end of your freshman year, how did you feel
about being an Aggie and your chances of survival?
Well, I was going to beat them before they could
beat me. And I think it's simply a matter of being
pleased that you were able to survive that. Always
was impressed with the... reputation of A&M in the
Ag arena, and that was the one that I was most
familiar with. I got involved in a lot of campus
activities outside the Corps and the outfit. I was
freshman class president, got involved in MSC,
SCONA, and those took up a lot of time. I was always
impressed here with how student government is
run. Go over there and you see the secretaries and
you see these people's schedules. And I remember
as student body president or student senate
president, as it was called back then, getting
ready for a meeting and typing your agenda on the
hunt and peck typewriter in your dorm. and going
over and getting Dean Penberthy to run off enough
copies for all of the members of the Student
Senate. And you go over there now and it's bigger
than the president's office was back then when
Harrington and Rudder and them were in the
president's office. And it's run much more
business-like and the amount of copies of stuff
that are run off, the amount of help, the students,
ability to organize and to plan activities, just
impressive the kinds of exposure they get and what
you can get done. Like comparing a manual
typewriter to a computer today. That's good.
That's very good. Because I can remember even when
I worked down here in the 60s and 70s, you'd type a
manuscript for a publication, whether it was
controlling cotton insects in Texas or how to
requeen a honeybee colony. You'd write the
publication up, And if you found a sentence on page
33 that was wrong, they had to retype pages 33 on the
rest of the way. Now you find that sentence in
there, and they can do it before you wait right
there at the desk, and they'll hand you the redone
copy. Let's zero in on the student leadership
because that's the important part of the story.
How did you get to be freshman president? Describe
how that came. Well, you asked a question a while
ago about how did you get away from the dorm. That's
one way. I had several upperclassmen in my outfit
suggested that I ought to run. I had someone
running for every freshman class.